In this video, we're going
to have a look at how
we can use Gets and
Transform to pull data from
another Excel workbook and
make some basic transformations.
In this scenario, we
are trying to help
the HR department sought out
all their training data.
At the moment it resides in
lots of different worksheets,
it's coming from
different departments,
different systems, even
different branches.
We'd like to put
it all together in
one central repository where
we can manage and work with it.
The training schedule is
kept in a master copy
in a separate workbook,
and that is the one that
the people setting up a
schedule still want to use,
but we need to be able
to pull the data from
the training schedule into
this workbook and work with it.
Now, I'll just remind you what
that training
schedule looks like.
So it's the data we looked
at in the last video.
You can see it's got the gaps.
But when we're trying
to work with this data,
we need to actually
fill those gaps,
but the master copy needs
to remain untouched.
So we're not actually going
to change the original file.
We're going to
import, if you like,
into our other Workbook
and change it there.
So let's see how we do this.
Now we're going to
start by clicking
into the training schedule sheet.
We're going to come back
to our Data ribbon,
and we going to come
to get an Transform.
But this time we're
not getting it
from within this Workbook.
So we're going to need
to come to Get data,
and we're going to choose
from file and from workbook.
Now you need to navigate to
find the workbook
you want to link to.
I've got it right here, it's
called training schedule,
so I'm just going to
double-click that.
If there were multiple sheets
inside the workbook
I'd connected to,
they would all be linked here.
We've only got the one and
if you single-click on it,
we do get a preview.
If all you wanted to do
was connect the data,
you could click load.
But we want to make some
transformations first.
So I'm going to click
Transform data.
If you have a slightly
older version,
you'll need to click "Edit".
When I do, we're back in
to the Power Query Editor.
Let's just take a moment
to talk about some of
the differences between
Power Query and Excel.
For one thing, Power Query does
not work at the cell level.
In other words, I
can't come in here and
start editing the data
or formatting the data.
The other thing you
may have noticed
is we're getting these nulls.
So where a cell is empty,
Power Query treats
it as a null value,
which is quite
different to excels
handling of it as a zero.
Power Query also uses much
stronger data typing,
a bit more like a database.
So for example, in Excel
a date is just a number
formatted to look like a date,
but Power Query, it's a
totally different data-type.
It's worth being aware
of these things,
although none of them
are going to cause
us problems as such.
One more thing I'd
like to point out,
if you have a look
at the formula bar,
and if you can't see
the Formula Bar,
come to view tab and just tick
Formula Bar to turn it on.
You will notice some
interesting looking code.
This is actually a
language called M and is
the language that our power
queries are written in.
Now for now, we're just going to
keep it in the background,
keep an eye on it.
But as we go through,
we will jump in and start
editing that language and
getting a little more
familiar with it as
it can help you solve
slightly trickier problems or
be a little more efficient.
Let's now get in and make
those transformations.
So the column we want to
change is our location.
We want to fill those gaps.
So I'm going to click location
and I'm going to
click on Transform.
The button we're looking
for is the Fill button.
When you click on the drop-down,
you can actually choose
to fill up or down.
We want to fill down, so
we're going to click on that.
Problem solved, too easy.
Now once again, let's
load our query.
So we're going to come to home,
we're going to come
to Close and Load.
We're going to choose
Close and Load too,
and we're going to put it
in an existing Worksheet.
Just make sure you've got a three
selected and click "Okay".
There is our completed query.
If you have looked at
the panel on the right,
it is showing all
the queries we've
currently created
in this Workbook.
If the panel gets closed,
I'll just close it
up for a moment.
If you come back to
Data tab and click
queries and connections,
you can reopen it.
You'll notice that I forgot
to give this query
a sensible names,
so at the moment it's
called Sheet one,
which is not really meaningful.
But you can easily go in
and change the name of
the query or update the
query at any point.
Probably the easiest
way to do this is
to right-click on the query on
the query editor panel
and click "Edit".
This takes us back into
our Power Query Editor,
and under properties,
we're going to give
it a better name.
So we're going to call
this Course Schedule.
Then I'm going to click
the top part of close and
load because we've already
chosen what to do with it,
and our query is updated.
Now I'd like to demonstrate what
happens when we change our
master training schedule.
So I'm going to hop back
is mass training schedule.
Let's say for example,
that Excel violence is
actually now going
to run in room one.
So I'm going to change
that to room one,
and I'm going to save
my change Control
S. When I go back to my query,
it has not immediately updated.
So you need to be aware that
queries do not auto refresh.
They will need to be refreshed.
But this is really easy to do.
Just right-click somewhere
in the data and click
the refresh button and you can
see it has picked up our change.
So we've seen how we can
use Power Query to get and
transform data from
another Excel file.
In the next video, we're
going to see how we can get
data for completely
different data sources.